CockroachDB (#1226)
spectrocloud/librarium: content/docs/04.5-devx/05-app-profile/08-services/50-service-listings/10-cockroach-db.md

---
title: "CockroachDB"
metaTitle: "CockroachDB"

> metaDescription: "Learn how to use CockroachDB with Palette Dev Engine"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
metaDescription: "Learn how to use CockroachDB with Palette Dev Engine."
```

hideToC: false
type: "appTier"
category: ['databases']
hiddenFromNav: false
fullWidth: false
logoUrl: "https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/3/31/Cockroach_Labs_Logo.png/220px-Cockroach_Labs_Logo.png"
---

import Tabs from 'shared/components/ui/Tabs';
import WarningBox from 'shared/components/WarningBox';
import InfoBox from 'shared/components/InfoBox';

# CockroachDB

> CockroachDB is a [distributed SQL database](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/blog/what-is-distributed-sql/) designed for cloud-native environments, providing a reliable and scalable solution for managing data across multiple nodes and regions. Its architecture automates data replication, sharding, and rebalancing, simplifying operational tasks and enabling developers to concentrate on building their applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CockroachDB is a [distributed SQL database](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/blog/what-is-distributed-sql/) designed for cloud-native environments. CockroachDB provides a reliable and scalable solution for managing data across multiple nodes and regions. Its architecture automates data replication, sharding, and rebalancing, By simplifying operational tasks, Cockroach enables developers to concentrate on building their applications.
```

Reviewer: It's up to you if you want to use the above suggestion. I offer it only to break up some long sentences.

With a focus on strong consistency and horizontal scalability, CockroachDB supports fast transactions and real-time data insights. Its fault-tolerant and self-healing capabilities help reduce downtime and ensure data accuracy. As a result, CockroachDB offers a stable and efficient database solution for developers looking to build robust applications in today's demanding digital landscape.

# Deploy CockroachDB

Palette users can deploy CockroachDB to a virtual cluster by using the following steps.

## Prerequisite

- A Spectro Cloud [account](https://www.spectrocloud.com/get-started/).

> - A Virtual Cluster with at least the following minimum resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A Virtual Cluster with the following minimum resources.
```

    - 8 CPU 
    - 8 GB of Memory
    - 8 GB of Storage.

## Enablement

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2. On the right side of the window, click on the **User Menu** and select **Switch to App Mode**.

> 3. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and click on **App Profiles** to create a [new App Profile](/devx/app-profile/create-app-profile/). Provide the following basic information and click **Next**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and click on **App Profiles** to create a new app profile. Review [Create an App Profile](/devx/app-profile/create-app-profile/) for more information. Provide the following basic information and click **Next**.
```

Reviewer: For consistency with other docs.

|         Parameter           | Description  |
|-----------------------------|-----------------|
|Application Profile Name | A custom name for the app profile.|
|Version (optional)       | The default value is 1.0.0. You can create multiple versions of an app profile using the format **`major.minor.patch`**.
|Description (optional)   | Description of the app profile. | 
|Tag (optional)           |  Assign tags to the app profile.|
 

4. Select the **CockroachDB** service and start the configuration.
  

5. Provide the following information to the wizard:

>   * **Name**: The application name.

Reviewer: Another line needs to be inserted between Name and Username to make the spacing consistent in the list.

>   * **Name**: The application name.

Author: ```suggestion
  * **Name**: The application name.
  
```

  * **Username**: The user name for database access control.

  * **dbPassword**: Security password for the DB service.

  * **Database Name**: The name of the database to target.

>   * **PersistentVolumeClaim Size (GiB)**: Select the volume as per the storage volume available in the cluster group and virtual clusters. Ensure you do not exceed the maximum storage size for your virtual cluster. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * **PersistentVolumeClaim Size (GiB)**: Select the volume according to the storage volume available in the cluster group and virtual clusters. Ensure you do not exceed the maximum storage size for your virtual cluster. 
```

6. Save your changes.

7. Deploy the app profile to a Palette Virtual Cluster. Use the [Deploy a Virtual Cluster](/clusters/palette-virtual-clusters/deploy-virtual-cluster#deployavirtualcluster) guide for additional guidance or check out the [Deploy an Application using Palette Dev Engine](/devx/apps/deploy-app) tutorial.

## Validation

> * To verify your database service is in the app profile, navigate to the **App Profiles** page, where all your app profiles are listed. Select the app profile to review the service layers. The following screen displays the different service layers that make up the app profile. Ensure CockroachDB is an available service layer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To verify your database service is in the app profile, navigate to the **App Profiles** page, where all your app profiles are listed. Select the app profile to review the service layers. The next screen displays the different service layers that make up the app profile. Ensure CockroachDB is an available service layer.
```

* Validate the services from the App page after app deployment. First, navigate to the **Apps** page, where all your apps are listed. Then, select the app to display the service layers. The color code in the app profile box shows the status of the service deployment.

> 

Reviewer: I'm okay with using this Validation format, but I thought you wanted numbered steps?

Author: You're absolutely right. I forgot to push it up my last change

| Service Hostname       | `{{.spectro.app.$appDeploymentName.database-<service-name>.COCKROACHDBMSTR_SVC}}`      | The Kubernetes service hostname for the database.                |
| Service Port           | `{{.spectro.app.$appDeploymentName.database-<service-name>.COCKROACHDBMSTR_SVC_PORT}}` | The exposed ports for the database service.              |
| Service Namespace       | `{{.spectro.app.$appDeploymentName.database-<service-name>.COCKROACHDBMSTR_SVC_NAMESPACE}}` | The namespace of the service.              |

# Database Password

You can get the database secret by reading the content of the Kubernetes secret created for the database user. To retrieve the password for the Redis database, use the following command format. 

<br />

```shell
kubectl get secret <app-name>-<service-name>-user \
 --namespace <app-name>-<service-name>-ns --output jsonpath='{.data.password}' | base64 --decode
```

Replace the values with the respective names.

  * app-name: represents the name of the app provided during the app creation process.
  * service-name: The name of the service layer in the app profile.

> Example: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Example: 
```

- App Name: `app-tion-medon`

- Service Name: `cockroachdb-1`

```shell
kubectl get secret  app-tion-medon-cockroachdb-1-user \
 --namespace app-tion-medon-cockroachdb-1-ns --output jsonpath='{.data.password}' | base64 --decode
```

> Output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Output:
```

```shell
.Hr1}%DrA2MFf
```
# Next Steps

> To learn more about developing with CockroachDB, be sure to check out the [CockroachDB Developer Guide](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/stable/developer-guide-overview.html). The developer guide is a great resource for understanding how to get started with CockroachDB and build applications that are scalable, resilient, and secure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about developing with CockroachDB, check out the [CockroachDB Developer Guide](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/stable/developer-guide-overview.html). The developer guide is a great resource for understanding how to get started with CockroachDB and build applications that are scalable, resilient, and secure.
```

> # Resources

Reviewer: Maybe we should have a style about spacing Resources? This looks good to me. When they're double spaced, it sometimes looks too spaced. It could be we double space if there are 5 or more resources. Single space 5 or less. I could add this to our team meeting agenda.
